hi folks gonna talk about my model B
cage today you won't see my faith
through this so recording thank goodness
there we go
I just finished restoring this in my
workshop as I say it's one banjo you've
made by the inventor Alban Keach from
the patent number here I can see it was
made in 1924 and from the serial number
on the back here I can see it's a model
B they made the model a B and C mainly
between the B and the C was that the
modern B had much sawn no I know what
the wood is but a much nicer red or wood
than the model a and also on the model B
you've got eight tensioners instead of
six which are on the model a and the
difference between the modern be in the
C mainly as a model C has more of these
fret markers this is a lovely instrument
they are my favourite makes the key
cheese because my dad gave me my first
one in nineteen God forty-eight I think
it was I've got loads of them now this
one I've taken the machine heads off and
then refitted them with extra washers
and little washes under here then the
adjustable friction type so they work
very nice I've adjusted the action that
C angle of this neck to this body which
in catches is always set wrong but if
the action here is very very low now
which is nice for George Formby type
music but also I'll give you another
bridge whoever buys it if you want to
raise the action as I say this is all
original apart from I renewed detention
Asst that's these tensioners on the side
the unique thing about the teaches is
that if you turn it over inside this
back wooden plate there is a drum and
internal drum that is between here and
there when you put it back on and you
tighten it up around there this presses
against the drum
that means you've got an extra way of
adjusting the tension so you either
adjust attention by tightening up these
nuts inside there then whether you can
see there's nuts that's a normal way
or you can just screw this up tighter or
looser so that's quite a unique way of
adjusting the tension the wood on this
I've kept it all original which is and
it's really nice wood very well used as
you can another one you can see it is of
faded a bit and patented and everything
but I think it's gorgeous proper sort of
antique look it's a proper nice
instrument this has been well used but
it's all set up to play nicely I've put
my own coloured strings on there these
are my own brand the main reason for
color strings is saving distinguish
between the first second third and
fourth
rather than relying on the gauges so I
can say rather than say this is number
one I can say that's a green one
some people get this this spring here in
the spring mixed up as to which is the
first and which is a fourth
okay I got some nice in a lay around
here love this and it's got me a
signature on there whether you can see
it okay just give it a run through see
what you think I don't want you all to
feel sorry for me by have developed
quite sort of nasty arthritis ladies
some set of swinging with this strumming
with this finger
I started strumming with this one so
it's my learning again here we go
well the other thing about some banjo
u-k's is you can change the tone quite a
lot depending on where along here you um
strum if you spam here much more better
than if you storm here and you aren't
getting more unique sound in the Keach
mainly due to this internal drum and
that's inside here which gives the sort
of old-fashioned sound like the old
fashioned move with all the
old-fashioned 78 I can always tell a
peach even with my eyes closed anyway
hope you like this and if you got any
questions please get in touch thank you